DBFE - DataBase FrontEnd Library
=================================

dbfe is a php library to generate an easy-to-use interface for displaying and modifying database contents.

## Target Audience

dbfe is a library for web developers and/or database administrators who want to easily generate a front-end web application for a SQL-Database. The resulting interface is targeting at non-technical users, however.

### When to use dbfe

You'll want to take a look at dbfe, if

- you need to create a database frontend application, that is meant to be used by non-technical users
- you don't want to use a fully-featured framework, or are not satisfied with the available frameworks for whatever reason

### When not to use dbfe

- you're looking for a tool to actually *manage* a database. dbfe is no replacement for tools like phpMyAdmin.
- you're looking for a ready-to use framework. In this case, please take a look at [Xataface](http://xataface.com/wiki/about)
- you don't want to invest the time to properly define your database. dbfe heavily relies on a proper setup of your tables (column types, primary/unique keys, foreign key constraints...) to properly generate the frontend interface.
 
## How does it work?

dbfe is a php library that provides you a number of base classes that you can set up on to create your database application.
An input form is generated by creating so called "page" classes, which derives from one of the page base classes provided by dbfe. The base class then provides a number of methods to process any data input or print out the form to your webpage.
The derived classes you'll have to implement mostly contain the configuration to tell dbfe what kind of html form it is to generate. In its simpliest form, this is just a list of the tables that shall be managed by this page.
Depending on the complexity of your database, additional configurations might be necessary, for example:

- configurations of the values provided in select files
- define the specific handling of file uploads
- define a customized ordering of lists

The form itself is generated by dbfe by analysing the definition of your tables. The type of input fields are derived from the column types in your table. Any table relations are identified by analysing the foreign key constraints that are defined between your tables.
This also means you are **required** to properly lay out your database! As of now, dbfe does not support configuring any database attributes that can be implemented in the database itself.

Apart from the generation and processing of the html forms, dbfe does not provide any other functionality to create a complete web application, like

- account handling or access restrictions
- stylesheets to fine-tune the presentation
- javascript to implement client-side dynamic behaviour

For a quick introduction into the general concepts of dbfe, please checkout the demo application provided with dbfe.
